Strategic Intelligence — Microsoft Corporation Home · Your analyses · Guest demo session Leave demo .challenge{border:1px solid var(--rule);border-radius:10px;padding:1rem 1.15rem; margin:1.5rem 0;background:var(--surface-2)} .challenge h2{margin:0 0 .35rem;font-size:1.05rem} .challenge .why{color:var(--muted);margin:0 0 .9rem;font-size:.92rem} .challenge dl{margin:0;display:grid;grid-template-columns:minmax(9rem,14rem) 1fr; gap:.55rem 1.1rem} .challenge dt{font-weight:600;color:var(--muted);font-size:.85rem; text-transform:uppercase;letter-spacing:.03em} .challenge dd{margin:0} .challenge .badge{display:inline-block;border:1px solid var(--rule); border-radius:999px;padding:.05rem .5rem;font-size:.75rem;color:var(--muted); margin-left:.4rem;vertical-align:middle} @media (max-width:640px){.challenge dl{grid-template-columns:1fr;gap:.15rem .5rem} .challenge dt{margin-top:.6rem}} Microsoft Corporation Full analysis — the intelligence behind the decision The answer Across the public record for Microsoft Corporation, businesses that subsidise each other are managed together and disclosed apart. The choice: Commit to the reading now versus hold and verify first. What most limits this: inter-segment transfers and shared cost allocations are not disclosed. The options, and what each costs Option 1 Commit to the reading now Management plans, resources and prices as though this is already true, without waiting for an outside source to confirm it. Upside If this reading holds, businesses that subsidise each other are managed together and disclosed apart. Cost If instead the segments are genuinely independent and the portfolio framing is investor-relations language rather than operating reality, the commitment is spent against nothing. This assumes That the reading stated above is the correct one. Watch Segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. Option 2 Hold and verify first Plan as though the plainer account is right: the segments are genuinely independent and the portfolio framing is investor-relations language rather than operating reality. Upside If the segments are genuinely independent and the portfolio framing is investor-relations language rather than operating reality, nothing has been committed against it. Cost If this reading holds instead, waiting costs whatever follows from it: businesses that subsidise each other are managed together and disclosed apart. This assumes That the competing account stated above is the correct one. Watch A divestment that leaves the remaining segments unaffected. What to do next One check separates them: segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. Challenging the assumption This is the reading Microsoft Corporation is most likely being run on, and what it would take to show it is wrong. strengthened — it survived a real attempt to break it. The market's current belief That Microsoft Corporation's growth and margin can improve together for another year, because they just did. Inferred Microsoft Corporation's own filed results show growth accelerating and margin widening. This is what a reader of that record carries into next year; nobody published it in these words and it is not a consensus estimate. Why it may be right A holder of this view is reading the record correctly as far as it goes: what it implies is the incremental margin on the next block of revenue, which is what separates operating leverage from a favourable mix, and nothing in what this run retrieved contradicts that. What could break it Revenue growth holds while incremental margin falls — the shape of growth being bought rather than earned. The best competing explanation Growth is being bought. Spend is converting into revenue at a cost that the cohort will not return over its life. The spend has to be earned back before it is repeated. The possibility worth testing What if what actually takes Microsoft Corporation's decisions away is not a competing vendor at all — it is the customer's own engineering? The competitive ladder for Microsoft Corporation reaches the customer's own engineering without needing a vendor to exist, and decides whether the product is priced against a vendor or against a salary. It would show up as closed-lost reasons dominated by no-decision rather than by a named vendor, and it is wrong if customers who built it in-house migrate back, or their build never reaches production. The weakest link in our own argument The direction shown in the record (accelerating) persists into the next period. assumed It is assumed, and 3 step(s) of the argument follow from it — so it is the first thing to check. Take the last four reported periods for Microsoft Corporation and count how often the direction of net revenue retention carried into the following one. A direction that persisted in fewer than three of four is not a trend the plan can lean on. What we would watch next The incremental margin on the next block of revenue, which is what separates operating leverage from a favourable mix. The cheapest way to find out Measure, for Microsoft Corporation, whether peers of the same class showing the same shape in the same quarters — the one observation on which “a cycle is flattering the result” and “growth is being bought” predict different things. Stop rule: stop when one period's data separates the two. If it does not separate them, stop anyway and record that the test lacked the power — do not extend it looking for the answer you expected. The decision this changes One check separates them: segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. The recommendation What to do now: One check separates them: segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. Why it matters: it is the parameter that decides whether a pricing action is worth making now or worth deferring, and the two answers lead to different plans. Confidence: BOUNDED — supported in direction, not in size. Guardrail: commit no more than can be withdrawn inside one planning cycle until the check below returns. Stopping rule: if the direction is not visible by the next review, the assumption under the decision has failed. How to test it: run the change on one segment or one cohort, hold the rest constant, and read customer count against the unchanged group for one full cycle — that isolates the effect without committing the whole book. What changed, and when Microsoft Corporation sells several distinct products rather than one, so attention and engineering are split across products that compete with each other for both. 2026-08-22 · PC CONNECTION, INC._December 31, 2025 Where this sits against the alternatives The alternatives this company's own evidence names are CDW Corporation, Insight Enterprises, Dell Inc, HP Inc. The closest is CDW Corporation — competes for the same buyer with a comparable product. Stated in the source as: “We compete with other national solutions providers of hardware and software and computer related products, including CDW Corporation and Insight Enterprises, Inc., who are the current leaders in the space.”. These are the options a buyer weighs in the same decision, so they cap what differentiation is worth claiming and what a premium can be charged for. The choice that turns on: whether the differentiation this plan assumes is one a buyer comparing the two would actually notice. Based on a single retrieved source. The closest is CDW Corporation — competes for the same buyer with a comparable product. The closest is CDW Corporation — competes for the same buyer with a comparable product. Alternatives named: CDW Corporation, Insight Enterprises, Dell Inc, HP Inc. Closest: CDW Corporation — competes for the same buyer with a comparable product. CDW Corporation competes for the same buyer with a comparable product Insight Enterprises competes for the same buyer with a comparable product Dell Inc competes for the same buyer with a comparable product HP Inc competes for the same buyer with a comparable product ByteDance a platform a buyer could standardise on instead These are the options a buyer weighs in the same decision, so they cap what differentiation is worth claiming and what a premium can be charged for. Whether the differentiation this plan assumes is one a buyer comparing the two would actually notice. retrieved evidence If we move, what do they do One rival, three ways it could behave. The levels are not scenarios about the market; they are assumptions about how much of our move the competitor sees and when. L0 — Adobe Inc. continues its current course and does not react. The move is below the threshold that would justify a response, or is not visible to it in time What follows: the full effect of a pricing action accrues, and customer count moves by the amount the decision assumed Watch for no change in pricing and packaging changes Our counter: none required. L1 — Adobe Inc. responds directly to a pricing action once it is visible. It shares this business model, so the same move is available to it at comparable cost What follows: the gain on customer count is partly competed away, and the industry ends at a worse position than it started Watch for a matching change appearing in pricing and packaging changes Our counter: sequence the move so the response arrives after the position is held, and size it to survive being matched. L2 — Adobe Inc. anticipates a pricing action and moves first. The same public evidence is available to it, and it faces the same conditions at the same time What follows: the decision is being made into a market that has already moved, so the assumptions under it are stale Watch for pricing and packaging changes from the competitor BEFORE any move of ours Our counter: re-establish the read before committing; treat a pre-emptive move as evidence the window has changed. No probability is put on these branches. The inputs a game-theoretic weighting would need are not in the published record, and a number invented for the look of it would be the least trustworthy thing in this document. What could be true that we are not considering These are propositions this company's current framing rules out by construction. None of them is a claim, and none is a forecast: each is stated with the mechanism that would make it true and the cheapest test that would settle it. Microsoft Corporation may be worth more serving materially fewer customers than it serves today. Its customers are individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, service providers, application… — a population wide enough that the cost to serve almost certainly is not uniform across it. Where the dispersion is wide, a minority of accounts can carry the whole contribution and the remainder can consume it through support, delivery and churn. Why this is usually missed: customer count is reported as an achievement and rarely decomposed by profitability, so a shrinking count reads as failure whatever it does to profit. For it: the filing describes a broad and heterogeneous customer base without stating what the least profitable part of it returns Against it: a flat cost-to-serve across account sizes would mean there is no unprofitable tail to shed It is falsified by cost-to-serve roughly equal across deciles falsifies this. Smallest test: rank accounts into deciles by revenue and measure fully-loaded cost to serve for the top and bottom decile. Standing: LIVE. The most valuable customer for what Microsoft Corporation has built may not be the customer it currently sells to. The capability behind the product was built to serve individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, service providers, application…. Capabilities are rarely specific to the buyer they were built for, and an adjacent buyer with a more expensive underlying problem can be worth more per unit of the same delivered capability. Why this is usually missed: the existing customer defines the roadmap, so the adjacent buyer never appears in the planning cycle that would find them. For it: the filing describes the capability and the current buyer without evidence that alternatives were priced Against it: a capability tightly coupled to one buyer's workflow, or regulation that confines it, would each rule this out It is falsified by A priced test with the adjacent buyer that returns no better than the current one falsifies this. Smallest test: price the existing capability to one adjacent buyer segment and compare realised price per unit against today's. Standing: LIVE. The workflow that Microsoft Corporation's product sits inside may stop existing rather than be improved. It sells an array of services, including cloud-based solutions that provide customers with AI, software, services, platforms, and content, and it provide…. A product priced against a human process captures a share of that process's cost; when the process is performed by a machine end to end, the customer is no longer buying a better way to do it, and there is nothing left for the price to be a share of. Why this is usually missed: competitive analysis compares against firms selling the same shape of product, and a workflow disappearing does not appear in any of them. For it: the product is described in terms of the process it supports rather than the outcome it delivers Against it: a product priced against a measurable OUTCOME survives the process being automated and would contradict this It is falsified by customers continuing to buy the process-shaped product as automation spreads falsifies this. Smallest test: offer one cohort outcome-based pricing and measure take-up against the existing basis. Standing: LIVE. Microsoft Corporation's most important competitor may be its own customers deciding to do this themselves. It charges on per-user portion of Power BI, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance, and Microsoft 365 Copilot; and Microsoft…. A charge that scales with the customer's own volume grows into a line item large enough to justify a build, and the largest customers reach that threshold first — which are the same accounts the revenue depends on most. Why this is usually missed: A customer who builds is recorded as churn, not as a competitive loss, so this never enters the competitive picture at all. For it: the pricing basis — per-user portion of Power BI, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance, and Microsoft 365 Copilot; and Microsoft… — scales with the customer rather than with what it costs to serve them Against it: a capability the customer cannot assemble — regulated, network-dependent, or data-dependent — would rule this out It is falsified by largest accounts showing no build activity at renewal falsifies this. Smallest test: interview the five largest accounts about internal builds and compare their spend against a build's cost. Standing: LIVE. What the market appears to expect The shares fell 4.5% over the past year, 24.4 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. That bears on one choice: whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. Price reflects expectations and positioning as well as results. It cannot distinguish a re-rating of this company from a re-rating of everything that looks like it. Annualised volatility is about 48%; the shares fell 35% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 11% below the period's highest close. Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. That bears on one choice: whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. This describes the spread of expectations, not the probability of any outcome, and it says nothing about operating performance. The shares fell 4.5% over the past year, 24.4 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The shares fell 4.5% over the past year, 24.4 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). From 2025-08-21 to 2026-08-21, with both series set to 100 at the start: this company ended at 96 and the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund) ended at 120. 67 96 126 2025-08-21 2026-08-21 This company Benchmark The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. Whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Annualised volatility is about 48%; the shares fell 35% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 11% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 48%; the shares fell 35% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 11% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 48%; the shares fell 35% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 11% below the period's highest close. Deepest fall from peak -35% Below the period high -11% Annualised volatility +48% Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. Whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Market data as at 2026-08-21 Macro and industry exposure US Department of Defense outlays (fiscal year to date) is rising: 764.7 $bn (from 718.9, +45.8), compared with the same month of the previous fiscal year, which is the only like-for-like comparison for a year-to-date figure. The company sells into government and defence budgets, so the size of the federal appropriation is the size of the pool its contracts are awarded from. A larger appropriation widens the addressable pool, but public procurement converts slowly and concentrates revenue in a few large awards, so growth arrives late and lumpy rather than smoothly. The choice it bears on: whether to fund specialist public-sector delivery and accreditation capacity ahead of awards that have not yet been announced. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. The choice it bears on: whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. US Department of Defense outlays (fiscal year to date) is rising: 764.7 $bn (from 718.9, +45.8), compared with the same month of the previous fiscal year, which is the only like-for-like comparison for a year-to-date figure. US Department of Defense outlays (fiscal year to date) is rising: 764.7 $bn (from 718.9, +45.8), compared with the same month of the previous fiscal year, which is the only like-for-like comparison for a year-to-date figure. US Department of Defense outlays (fiscal year to date): 764.7 $bn (from 718.9, +45.8), rising. FACTOR US Department of Defense outlays (fiscal year to date): 764.7 $bn (from 718.9, +45.8) REACHES THIS COMPANY BY The company sells into government and defence budgets, so the size of the federal appropriation is the size of the pool its contracts are awarded from. WHICH CHANGES A larger appropriation widens the addressable pool, but public procurement converts slowly and concentrates revenue in a few large awards, so growth arrives late and lumpy rather than smoothly. DECISION Whether to fund specialist public-sector delivery and accreditation capacity ahead of awards that have not yet been announced. The company sells into government and defence budgets, so the size of the federal appropriation is the size of the pool its contracts are awarded from. A larger appropriation widens the addressable pool, but public procurement converts slowly and concentrates revenue in a few large awards, so growth arrives late and lumpy rather than smoothly. Whether to fund specialist public-sector delivery and accreditation capacity ahead of awards that have not yet been announced. US Treasury, Monthly Treasury Statement (MTS Table 5 — Department of Defense, Military Programs) · reading dated 2026-07-31, monthly Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), rising. FACTOR Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2) REACHES THIS COMPANY BY The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. WHICH CHANGES Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. DECISION Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. US Treasury, FiscalData (Average Interest Rates on US Treasury Securities) · reading dated 2026-07-31, monthly Each factor is here because this company's own retrieved evidence establishes the exposure, not because it applies to companies generally. US Treasury, Monthly Treasury Statement (MTS Table 5 — Department of Defense, Military Programs). This establishes that the company operates where this factor applies, and the direction the factor has moved. It does not measure how much of this company's revenue is exposed, and it is not evidence that the factor has already affected results. Where this has played out before Owning both what is sold and the channel it reaches people through lets each business subsidise the other's acquisition cost. The same coupling makes per-business accountability harder to read from outside, and a weak segment can be carried far longer than it would survive alone. Where the comparison stops: Segments are unrelated holdings with no described operational connection. Check that against the company before relying on the analogy — it is the one condition that would make it the wrong comparison. Seen at: Vertically integrated entertainment groups — content and the device it plays on managed together; Platform holders with first-party content — hardware margin funded by content attach What this rests on Hold and verify first The segments are genuinely independent and the portfolio framing is investor-relations language rather than operating reality. How this could go If the reading holds If this reading holds, businesses that subsidise each other are managed together and disclosed apart. The indicator that this is happening: segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. If the plainer account holds If the segments are genuinely independent and the portfolio framing is investor-relations language rather than operating reality, nothing has been committed against it. Acting early would then have cost what commit to the reading now commits. If it is settled too late The cost of deciding late is the cost of hold and verify first turning out to be wrong, which the option comparison above states in full. What is still unknown, and why it matters Not established We found signs of this shape for Microsoft Corporation, but did not verify that it names two clearly different buyer groups. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. It would usually appear in a customers page or a segment disclosure. Not established We found signs of this shape for Microsoft Corporation, but did not verify that it holds the authoritative record rather than a copy of it, its products run on one model of the customer's data or customers retire a system they already had. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. It would usually appear in product documentation or a filing describing what the platform holds. What this has prepared for you Options comparison A one-page side-by-side of Commit to the reading now and hold and verify first, each with its upside, its cost, the assumption it rests on and the sources behind it — for the meeting where this is argued. Decision memo The reading, the choice and the recommended next move, written so the trade-off has to be made explicitly rather than by default. Board discussion questions Segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. Diligence checklist Inter-segment transfers and shared cost allocations are not disclosed; We found signs of this shape for Microsoft Corporation, but did not verify that it names two clearly different buyer groups. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. It would usually appear in a customers page or a segment disclosure. Drafted here and nothing more. Nothing is sent, published, scheduled or shared without your explicit approval. Every source this rests on Regulatory or investor filing Microsoft is a technology company committed to making digital technology and artificial intelligence (“AI”) available broadly and doing so responsibly, with a mission to empower every person and every organization on the… 10-K Another registrant's filing We offer a broad selection of over 460,000 products at competitive prices, including products from vendors like Apple, Cisco, Dell Inc., HP Inc. PC CONNECTION, INC._December 31, 2025 What this was built from The company's own pages — none Executive statements — none Filings and investor material · 1 Customer evidence — none Another registrant's filing · 1 Independent reporting — none We could not read anything the company publishes about itself, so its own account of its strategy is missing from this reading. No source of this kind was found to try. Leadership commentary is a claim about intent, not evidence of result. No source of this kind was found to try. Nothing here reports what buying and using this actually costs a customer, so adoption and retention claims cannot be tested. What would settle it: a handful of named customer accounts, reviews or case studies — enough to see whether the value claimed is the value bought. No source of this kind was found to try. No outside party has reported on this, so nothing corrects for what the company chooses to emphasise. What would settle it: any source the company does not control that discusses the same decision — trade press, a regulator, or an analyst note. No source of this kind was found to try. ← Back Presentation Step 3 of 6 Introduction Presentation Full analysis The full story History rewind Connect your company Next → The full story the same conclusion as a narrative you can retell Ask the intelligence assistant Your question Ask Suggested, company-specific: What evidence most weakens the running separately-reported businesses as a single portfolio thesis? How is this transition similar to Vertically integrated entertainment groups, and where does the comparison break down? What is likely being debated internally right now? Which recent event makes this timely? What changed in the last six months? Sharing is disabled for demo sessions. Feedback Feedback is switched off here for now — we could not promise to keep what you sent, and asking anyway would be worse than not asking.