Strategic Intelligence — Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Home · Your analyses · Guest demo session Leave demo .challenge{border:1px solid var(--rule);border-radius:10px;padding:1rem 1.15rem; margin:1.5rem 0;background:var(--surface-2)} .challenge h2{margin:0 0 .35rem;font-size:1.05rem} .challenge .why{color:var(--muted);margin:0 0 .9rem;font-size:.92rem} .challenge dl{margin:0;display:grid;grid-template-columns:minmax(9rem,14rem) 1fr; gap:.55rem 1.1rem} .challenge dt{font-weight:600;color:var(--muted);font-size:.85rem; text-transform:uppercase;letter-spacing:.03em} .challenge dd{margin:0} .challenge .badge{display:inline-block;border:1px solid var(--rule); border-radius:999px;padding:.05rem .5rem;font-size:.75rem;color:var(--muted); margin-left:.4rem;vertical-align:middle} @media (max-width:640px){.challenge dl{grid-template-columns:1fr;gap:.15rem .5rem} .challenge dt{margin-top:.6rem}} Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Full analysis — the intelligence behind the decision The answer Across the public record for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., the second buyer arrives with requirements the first never had. The choice: Commit to the reading now versus hold and verify first. What most limits this: the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working. The options, and what each costs Option 1 Commit to the reading now Management plans, resources and prices as though this is already true, without waiting for an outside source to confirm it. Upside If this reading holds, the second buyer arrives with requirements the first never had. Cost If instead one segment is aspirational marketing rather than real revenue, the commitment is spent against nothing. This assumes That the reading stated above is the correct one. Option 2 Hold and verify first Plan as though the plainer account is right: one segment is aspirational marketing rather than real revenue. Upside If one segment is aspirational marketing rather than real revenue, nothing has been committed against it. Cost If this reading holds instead, waiting costs whatever follows from it: the second buyer arrives with requirements the first never had. This assumes That the competing account stated above is the correct one. What to do next One check separates them: evidence that one named segment contributes negligible revenue. Challenging the assumption This is the reading Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. is most likely being run on, and what it would take to show it is wrong. strengthened — it survived a real attempt to break it. The market's current belief That Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.'s growth and margin can improve together for another year, because they just did. Inferred Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.'s own filed results show growth accelerating and margin widening. This is what a reader of that record carries into next year; nobody published it in these words and it is not a consensus estimate. Why it may be right A holder of this view is reading the record correctly as far as it goes: what it implies is the incremental margin on the next block of revenue, which is what separates operating leverage from a favourable mix, and nothing in what this run retrieved contradicts that. What could break it Revenue growth holds while incremental margin falls — the shape of growth being bought rather than earned. The best competing explanation Growth is being bought. Spend is converting into revenue at a cost that the cohort will not return over its life. The spend has to be earned back before it is repeated. The possibility worth testing What if what actually takes Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.'s decisions away is not a competing vendor at all — it is keeping the existing fleet running longer? The competitive ladder for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. reaches keeping the existing fleet running longer without needing a vendor to exist, and decides whether the pipeline problem is competitive or is a case-for-change problem. It would show up as closed-lost reasons dominated by no-decision rather than by a named vendor, and it is wrong if the share of evaluations that close at all is stable rather than falling. The weakest link in our own argument The direction shown in the record (accelerating) persists into the next period. assumed It is assumed, and 3 step(s) of the argument follow from it — so it is the first thing to check. Take the last four reported periods for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and count how often the direction of the order book and the price realised on it carried into the following one. A direction that persisted in fewer than three of four is not a trend the plan can lean on. What we would watch next The incremental margin on the next block of revenue, which is what separates operating leverage from a favourable mix. The cheapest way to find out Measure, for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., whether peers of the same class showing the same shape in the same quarters — the one observation on which “a cycle is flattering the result” and “growth is being bought” predict different things. Stop rule: stop when one period's data separates the two. If it does not separate them, stop anyway and record that the test lacked the power — do not extend it looking for the answer you expected. The decision this changes One check separates them: evidence that one named segment contributes negligible revenue. The recommendation What to do now: One check separates them: evidence that one named segment contributes negligible revenue. Why it matters: it is the parameter that decides whether a capacity commitment is worth making now or worth deferring, and the two answers lead to different plans. Confidence: BOUNDED — supported in direction, not in size. Guardrail: commit no more than can be withdrawn inside one planning cycle until the check below returns. Stopping rule: if the direction is not visible by the next review, the assumption under the decision has failed. How to test it: run the change on one segment or one cohort, hold the rest constant, and read unit volume against the unchanged group for one full cycle — that isolates the effect without committing the whole book. What changed, and when Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. delivers through people, not only through software, so growth needs people as well as software, and margin follows headcount. 2026-08-21 · DEF 14A Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. sells several distinct products rather than one, so attention and engineering are split across products that compete with each other for both. 2026-08-21 · SEC 10-Q (2026-08-05) What the evidence actually says Regulatory or investor filing Denzel Director since March 2014 and Lead Independent Director since November 2022 Age: 63 Board Committees: Chair of Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Member of Innovation and Technology Committee. DEF 14A Where this sits against the alternatives The alternatives this company's own evidence names are The buyer's own engineering team. The closest is The buyer's own engineering team — the buyer's own engineering team building it in-house. Stated in the source as: “Additionally, we may encounter competition from customers who internally develop products to support AI workloads similar to those supported by our products, particularly as AI continues to advance and become integrated into the markets in which we compete.”. These are the options a buyer weighs in the same decision, so they cap what differentiation is worth claiming and what a premium can be charged for. The choice that turns on: whether the pitch is against another vendor or against the buyer's own engineering time, which is a different argument and a different price anchor. Named as an alternative in the company's own account; how often buyers actually choose it is not disclosed. Customer financing and purchase enablement: Revolving Credit Agreement, Revolving Credit Agreement, Revolving Credit Agreement. Named in the filing alongside the competitive discussion and kept out of it — a lender ('Credit'): it contests how the customer PAYS for the purchase, not which product they buy, and this company does not sell financing. Regulation and payer economics: Restructuring Plan, Produce Semiconductors. Named in the filing alongside the competitive discussion and kept out of it — governed by 'Plan': a programme or policy whose terms move this business, not an alternative a customer chooses. What the market appears to expect The shares rose 186.5% over the past year, 166.5 percentage points ahead of the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. That bears on one choice: whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. Price reflects expectations and positioning as well as results. It cannot distinguish a re-rating of this company from a re-rating of everything that looks like it. Annualised volatility is about 77%; the shares fell 28% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 18% below the period's highest close. Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. That bears on one choice: whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. This describes the spread of expectations, not the probability of any outcome, and it says nothing about operating performance. The shares rose 186.5% over the past year, 166.5 percentage points ahead of the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The shares rose 186.5% over the past year, 166.5 percentage points ahead of the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). From 2025-08-21 to 2026-08-21, with both series set to 100 at the start: this company ended at 289 and the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund) ended at 120. 76 215 353 2025-08-21 2026-08-21 This company Benchmark The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. Whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Annualised volatility is about 77%; the shares fell 28% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 18% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 77%; the shares fell 28% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 18% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 77%; the shares fell 28% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 18% below the period's highest close. Deepest fall from peak -28% Below the period high -18% Annualised volatility +77% Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. Whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Market data as at 2026-08-21 Macro and industry exposure Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. The choice it bears on: whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), rising. FACTOR Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2) REACHES THIS COMPANY BY The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. WHICH CHANGES Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. DECISION Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. US Treasury, FiscalData (Average Interest Rates on US Treasury Securities) · reading dated 2026-07-31, monthly Each factor is here because this company's own retrieved evidence establishes the exposure, not because it applies to companies generally. US Treasury, FiscalData (Average Interest Rates on US Treasury Securities). This establishes that the company operates where this factor applies, and the direction the factor has moved. It does not measure how much of this company's revenue is exposed, and it is not evidence that the factor has already affected results. Where this has played out before A second segment brings volume but different procurement, compliance and support expectations. The organisation gradually splits — pricing, roadmap and sales motion pull apart — and the original segment's experience is usually what degrades first. Where the comparison stops: Only one buyer group is ever described, or the second is an aspiration with no evidence. Check that against the company before relying on the analogy — it is the one condition that would make it the wrong comparison. Seen at: Slack SMB to enterprise — self-serve teams alongside enterprise grid deployments; AWS startups to public sector — a separate accredited region and procurement path Capacity is bought in large, slow increments while demand arrives in small, fast ones. Committing early wins share when the forecast holds and strands fixed cost when it does not — and the forecast usually rests on a handful of large customers whose own product cycles set the timing. Where the comparison stops: Capacity is rented or elastic, or demand is spread across many independent buyers. Check that against the company before relying on the analogy — it is the one condition that would make it the wrong comparison. Seen at: Memory and sensor fabrication cycles — capacity added on forecast, then written down when handset demand moved; Contract manufacturing capacity build-outs — multi-year fab commitments against customer roadmaps What this rests on Hold and verify first One segment is aspirational marketing rather than real revenue. How this could go If the reading holds If this reading holds, the second buyer arrives with requirements the first never had. The indicator that this is happening: evidence that one named segment contributes negligible revenue. If the plainer account holds If one segment is aspirational marketing rather than real revenue, nothing has been committed against it. Acting early would then have cost what commit to the reading now commits. If it is settled too late The cost of deciding late is the cost of hold and verify first turning out to be wrong, which the option comparison above states in full. What is still unknown, and why it matters Not established We found signs of this shape for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., but did not verify that it runs a separate estate for public-sector buyers, it holds accreditations those buyers require, it is bought through public procurement or it has disclosed what those buyers contribute. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. Not established Revenue by segment is not disclosed on public pages. What to monitor, in priority order Disclosed long-term purchase commitments covering the new capacity. What this has prepared for you Options comparison A one-page side-by-side of Commit to the reading now and hold and verify first, each with its upside, its cost, the assumption it rests on and the sources behind it — for the meeting where this is argued. Decision memo The reading, the choice and the recommended next move, written so the trade-off has to be made explicitly rather than by default. Board discussion questions Evidence that one named segment contributes negligible revenue.; Disclosed long-term purchase commitments covering the new capacity. Diligence checklist the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working; We found signs of this shape for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., but did not verify that it runs a separate estate for public-sector buyers, it holds accreditations those buyers require, it is bought through public procurement or it has disclosed what those buyers contribute. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. Drafted here and nothing more. Nothing is sent, published, scheduled or shared without your explicit approval. Every source this rests on Regulatory or investor filing sells several distinct products rather than one SEC 10-K (2026-02-04) Regulatory or investor filing on our business; expected shipment of the Helios rack-scale platforms; expected gain on the transfer of appreciated assets related to the acquisition of ZT Group Int'l, Inc. SEC 10-Q (2026-08-05) Regulatory or investor filing Denzel Director since March 2014 and Lead Independent Director since November 2022 Age: 63 Board Committees: Chair of Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Member of Innovation and Technology Committee. DEF 14A Regulatory or investor filing sells several distinct products rather than one SEC 10-K (2025-02-05) What this was built from The company's own pages — none Executive statements — none Filings and investor material · 4 Customer evidence — none Another registrant's filing — none Independent reporting — none We could not read anything the company publishes about itself, so its own account of its strategy is missing from this reading. This is not an absence of publishing: 3 of the company's own addresses refused automated access, so the material may exist and be unreadable to us. Leadership commentary is a claim about intent, not evidence of result. This is not an absence of publishing: 3 of the company's own addresses refused automated access, so the material may exist and be unreadable to us. Nothing here reports what buying and using this actually costs a customer, so adoption and retention claims cannot be tested. What would settle it: a handful of named customer accounts, reviews or case studies — enough to see whether the value claimed is the value bought. No source of this kind was found to try. No competitor's own account was read, so relative position rests on this company's framing of its market. What would settle it: one rival's annual filing, where a competitor describes the same contest in its own words and is under obligation to be accurate about it. No independent source in this dossier supports the reading. That is a limit of what we retrieved, not evidence that no independent coverage exists. We looked at 24 filing(s) by other registrants and read 12 in full. No outside party has reported on this, so nothing corrects for what the company chooses to emphasise. What would settle it: any source the company does not control that discusses the same decision — trade press, a regulator, or an analyst note. No source of this kind was found to try. ← Back Presentation Step 3 of 6 Introduction Presentation Full analysis The full story History rewind Connect your company Next → The full story the same conclusion as a narrative you can retell Ask the intelligence assistant Your question Ask Suggested, company-specific: What evidence most weakens the selling to a second kind of buyer that behaves nothing like the first thesis? How is this transition similar to Slack SMB to enterprise, and where does the comparison break down? What is likely being debated internally right now? Which recent event makes this timely? What changed in the last six months? Sharing is disabled for demo sessions. Feedback Feedback is switched off here for now — we could not promise to keep what you sent, and asking anyway would be worse than not asking.