Strategic Intelligence — NIKE, Inc. Home · Your analyses · Guest demo session Leave demo .challenge{border:1px solid var(--rule);border-radius:10px;padding:1rem 1.15rem; margin:1.5rem 0;background:var(--surface-2)} .challenge h2{margin:0 0 .35rem;font-size:1.05rem} .challenge .why{color:var(--muted);margin:0 0 .9rem;font-size:.92rem} .challenge dl{margin:0;display:grid;grid-template-columns:minmax(9rem,14rem) 1fr; gap:.55rem 1.1rem} .challenge dt{font-weight:600;color:var(--muted);font-size:.85rem; text-transform:uppercase;letter-spacing:.03em} .challenge dd{margin:0} .challenge .badge{display:inline-block;border:1px solid var(--rule); border-radius:999px;padding:.05rem .5rem;font-size:.75rem;color:var(--muted); margin-left:.4rem;vertical-align:middle} @media (max-width:640px){.challenge dl{grid-template-columns:1fr;gap:.15rem .5rem} .challenge dt{margin-top:.6rem}} NIKE, Inc. Full analysis — the intelligence behind the decision The answer The decision in front of management is what to charge, and for what, without losing more volume than the price gains? Causal confidence: BOUNDED — supported in direction, not in size. What is known: branded product sold through retail and direct channels, where the brand carries pricing power the product alone would not. What remains unknown: the company&#x27;s filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working. Why that matters: it is the parameter that decides whether a pricing action is worth making now or worth deferring, and the two answers lead to different plans. What management should do now: move on pricing and promotion at a size that can be reversed inside one planning cycle, and instrument it so the result is readable before the next commitment. Minimum viable experiment: run the change on one segment or one cohort, hold the rest constant, and read volume against the unchanged group for one full cycle — that isolates the effect without committing the whole book. Kill switch: if the direction is not visible by the next review, the assumption under the decision has failed. What would change our mind: a disclosure in pricing and promotional actions showing the mechanism moving in the opposite direction would overturn this reading. What this run could not establish on its own: no curated transition pattern matched NIKE, Inc. in this pass, so nothing here rests on one. What most limits this: the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working. Challenging the assumption This is the reading NIKE, Inc. is most likely being run on, and what it would take to show it is wrong. strengthened — it survived a real attempt to break it. The market's current belief That NIKE, Inc.'s growth and margin can improve together for another year, because they just did. Inferred NIKE, Inc.'s own filed results show growth accelerating and margin widening. This is what a reader of that record carries into next year; nobody published it in these words and it is not a consensus estimate. Why it may be right A holder of this view is reading the record correctly as far as it goes: what it implies is the incremental margin on the next block of revenue, which is what separates operating leverage from a favourable mix, and nothing in what this run retrieved contradicts that. What could break it Revenue growth holds while incremental margin falls — the shape of growth being bought rather than earned. The best competing explanation Growth is being bought. Spend is converting into revenue at a cost that the cohort will not return over its life. The spend has to be earned back before it is repeated. The possibility worth testing What if what actually takes NIKE, Inc.'s decisions away is not a competing vendor at all — it is the shopper trading down or buying nothing? The competitive ladder for NIKE, Inc. reaches the shopper trading down or buying nothing without needing a vendor to exist, and decides whether the market is being lost or is shrinking. It would show up as closed-lost reasons dominated by no-decision rather than by a named vendor, and it is wrong if the underlying occasion for the purchase holds in the cohorts where behaviour has changed most. The weakest link in our own argument The direction shown in the record (accelerating) persists into the next period. assumed It is assumed, and 3 step(s) of the argument follow from it — so it is the first thing to check. Take the last four reported periods for NIKE, Inc. and count how often the direction of the price gap held against own-label in the same aisle carried into the following one. A direction that persisted in fewer than three of four is not a trend the plan can lean on. What we would watch next The incremental margin on the next block of revenue, which is what separates operating leverage from a favourable mix. The cheapest way to find out Measure, for NIKE, Inc., whether peers of the same class showing the same shape in the same quarters — the one observation on which “a cycle is flattering the result” and “growth is being bought” predict different things. Stop rule: stop when one period's data separates the two. If it does not separate them, stop anyway and record that the test lacked the power — do not extend it looking for the answer you expected. The decision this changes move on pricing and promotion at a size that can be reversed inside one planning cycle, and instrument it so the result is readable before the next commitment. The recommendation What to do now: move on pricing and promotion at a size that can be reversed inside one planning cycle, and instrument it so the result is readable before the next commitment. Why it matters: it is the parameter that decides whether a pricing action is worth making now or worth deferring, and the two answers lead to different plans. The mechanism this rests on: branded product sold through retail and direct channels, where the brand carries pricing power the product alone would not. Confidence: BOUNDED — supported in direction, not in size. Guardrail: commit no more than can be withdrawn inside one planning cycle until the check below returns. Stopping rule: if the direction is not visible by the next review, the assumption under the decision has failed. How to test it: run the change on one segment or one cohort, hold the rest constant, and read volume against the unchanged group for one full cycle — that isolates the effect without committing the whole book. What would change this view: a disclosure in pricing and promotional actions showing the mechanism moving in the opposite direction would overturn this reading. How the business actually works Growth engine Sells several distinct products rather than one. What changed, and when NIKE, Inc. publishes named customers rather than logos alone, so those customers agreed to be named, which is a stronger claim than a logo wall. 2026-08-21 · The Latest Stories. Nike AU What the evidence actually says Regulatory or investor filing NIKE designs, develops, markets and sells athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services worldwide. We are the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. SEC 10-K (2026-07-15) Where this sits against the alternatives Li Ning: NIKE, Inc. names it as a competitor in its own filing — we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large compan. Li Ning matches on capability rather than on headline price, because a public price cut is visible to its whole installed base and a feature is not. Response likelihood: likely, and quickly — this is a contested market with an incentive to respond. Hold list price and compete on the part of the job they have to build rather than buy. The signal that would show it first is discounting that appears in their public pricing rather than in individual deals. Under Armour: NIKE, Inc. names it as a competitor in its own filing — we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large compan. Under Armour matches on capability rather than on headline price, because a public price cut is visible to its whole installed base and a feature is not. Response likelihood: likely, and quickly — this is a contested market with an incentive to respond. Hold list price and compete on the part of the job they have to build rather than buy. The signal that would show it first is discounting that appears in their public pricing rather than in individual deals. Confidence in the above is bounded: it rests on this company's own account of its market and on how businesses of this kind compete, with no rival's own account to check it against. What would improve it is a competitor's published positioning or pricing on the same buyer — until then, treat a competitor moving first as the risk this evidence cannot price. What the market appears to expect The shares fell 46.6% over the past year, 66.5 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. That bears on one choice: whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. Price reflects expectations and positioning as well as results. It cannot distinguish a re-rating of this company from a re-rating of everything that looks like it. Annualised volatility is about 35%; the shares fell 51% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 49% below the period's highest close. Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. That bears on one choice: whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. This describes the spread of expectations, not the probability of any outcome, and it says nothing about operating performance. The shares fell 46.6% over the past year, 66.5 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The shares fell 46.6% over the past year, 66.5 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). From 2025-08-21 to 2026-08-21, with both series set to 100 at the start: this company ended at 53 and the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund) ended at 120. 48 88 128 2025-08-21 2026-08-21 This company Benchmark The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. Whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Annualised volatility is about 35%; the shares fell 51% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 49% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 35%; the shares fell 51% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 49% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 35%; the shares fell 51% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 49% below the period's highest close. Deepest fall from peak -51% Below the period high -49% Annualised volatility +35% Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. Whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Market data as at 2026-08-21 Macro and industry exposure Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. The choice it bears on: whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), rising. FACTOR Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2) REACHES THIS COMPANY BY The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. WHICH CHANGES Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. DECISION Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. US Treasury, FiscalData (Average Interest Rates on US Treasury Securities) · reading dated 2026-07-31, monthly Each factor is here because this company's own retrieved evidence establishes the exposure, not because it applies to companies generally. US Treasury, FiscalData (Average Interest Rates on US Treasury Securities). This establishes that the company operates where this factor applies, and the direction the factor has moved. It does not measure how much of this company's revenue is exposed, and it is not evidence that the factor has already affected results. What this has prepared for you Evidence request A numbered request for exactly what is missing: the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working. Investigation plan The one bounded check that would settle this, with what each result would favour. Diligence checklist the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working. Drafted here and nothing more. Nothing is sent, published, scheduled or shared without your explicit approval. Every source this rests on Regulatory or investor filing NIKE designs, develops, markets and sells athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services worldwide. We are the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. SEC 10-K (2026-07-15) From NIKE, Inc.'s own site Find limitless inspiration in the latest stories from Nike. Browse coaching and culture articles, and get to know the people, places and innovations that are moving the world forwards. The Latest Stories. Nike AU Regulatory or investor filing NIKE designs, develops, markets and sells athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services worldwide. We are the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. SEC 10-Q (2026-04-01) What this was built from The company's own pages · 1 Executive statements — none Filings and investor material · 2 Customer evidence — none Another registrant's filing — none Independent reporting — none Leadership commentary is a claim about intent, not evidence of result. This is not an absence of publishing: 7 of the company's own addresses refused automated access, so the material may exist and be unreadable to us. Nothing here reports what buying and using this actually costs a customer, so adoption and retention claims cannot be tested. What would settle it: a handful of named customer accounts, reviews or case studies — enough to see whether the value claimed is the value bought. No source of this kind was found to try. No competitor's own account was read, so relative position rests on this company's framing of its market. What would settle it: one rival's annual filing, where a competitor describes the same contest in its own words and is under obligation to be accurate about it. No independent source in this dossier supports the reading. That is a limit of what we retrieved, not evidence that no independent coverage exists. No outside party has reported on this, so nothing corrects for what the company chooses to emphasise. What would settle it: any source the company does not control that discusses the same decision — trade press, a regulator, or an analyst note. No source of this kind was found to try. ← Back Presentation Step 3 of 6 Introduction Presentation Full analysis The full story History rewind Connect your company Next → The full story the same conclusion as a narrative you can retell Ask the intelligence assistant Your question Ask Suggested, company-specific: Which recent event makes this timely? What changed in the last six months? Sharing is disabled for demo sessions. Feedback Feedback is switched off here for now — we could not promise to keep what you sent, and asking anyway would be worse than not asking.