Strategic Intelligence — Salesforce, Inc. Home · Your analyses · Guest demo session Leave demo .challenge{border:1px solid var(--rule);border-radius:10px;padding:1rem 1.15rem; margin:1.5rem 0;background:var(--surface-2)} .challenge h2{margin:0 0 .35rem;font-size:1.05rem} .challenge .why{color:var(--muted);margin:0 0 .9rem;font-size:.92rem} .challenge dl{margin:0;display:grid;grid-template-columns:minmax(9rem,14rem) 1fr; gap:.55rem 1.1rem} .challenge dt{font-weight:600;color:var(--muted);font-size:.85rem; text-transform:uppercase;letter-spacing:.03em} .challenge dd{margin:0} .challenge .badge{display:inline-block;border:1px solid var(--rule); border-radius:999px;padding:.05rem .5rem;font-size:.75rem;color:var(--muted); margin-left:.4rem;vertical-align:middle} @media (max-width:640px){.challenge dl{grid-template-columns:1fr;gap:.15rem .5rem} .challenge dt{margin-top:.6rem}} Salesforce, Inc. Full analysis — the intelligence behind the decision The answer Across the public record for Salesforce, Inc., when agents transact, the rails they call matter more than the human-facing storefront. The choice: Commit to the reading now versus hold and verify first. What most limits this: the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working. The options, and what each costs Option 1 Commit to the reading now Management plans, resources and prices as though this is already true, without waiting for an outside source to confirm it. Upside If this reading holds, when agents transact, the rails they call matter more than the human-facing storefront. Cost If instead agentic-commerce work is R&D optionality, not a near-term distribution change, the commitment is spent against nothing. This assumes That the reading stated above is the correct one. Watch Is a measurable and growing share of orders originating from AI-agent surfaces rather than human browsing? Option 2 Hold and verify first Plan as though the plainer account is right: agentic-commerce work is R&D optionality, not a near-term distribution change. Upside If agentic-commerce work is R&D optionality, not a near-term distribution change, nothing has been committed against it. Cost If this reading holds instead, waiting costs whatever follows from it: when agents transact, the rails they call matter more than the human-facing storefront. This assumes That the competing account stated above is the correct one. Watch Do merchants see agent-driven demand they cannot get elsewhere? What to do next One check separates them: is a measurable and growing share of orders originating from AI-agent surfaces rather than human browsing? Challenging the assumption This is the reading Salesforce, Inc. is most likely being run on, and what it would take to show it is wrong. strengthened — it survived a real attempt to break it. The market's current belief That Salesforce, Inc.'s margin improvement continues and carries the equity while growth recovers on its own. Inferred Salesforce, Inc.'s own filed results show growth slowing and margin widening. This is what a reader of that record carries into next year; nobody published it in these words and it is not a consensus estimate. Why it may be right A holder of this view is reading the record correctly as far as it goes: what it implies is whether there is a next growth vector being funded at all, which the investment line shows before the revenue line does, and nothing in what this run retrieved contradicts that. What could break it Margin flattening before growth reaccelerates, which would mean the cost was taken out of the thing that was going to grow. The best competing explanation Activation, not acquisition. Customers are being won and are not reaching the point where the product becomes hard to remove. The investment is in onboarding, which is not where growth budget usually goes. The possibility worth testing What if what actually takes Salesforce, Inc.'s decisions away is not a competing vendor at all — it is cloud computing application service providers? The competitive ladder for Salesforce, Inc. reaches cloud computing application service providers without needing a vendor to exist, and decides whether the roadmap absorbs the automation or is absorbed by it. It would show up as closed-lost reasons dominated by no-decision rather than by a named vendor, and it is wrong if usage per customer holds as automation spreads through the same accounts. The weakest link in our own argument The direction shown in the record (slowing) persists into the next period. assumed It is assumed, and 3 step(s) of the argument follow from it — so it is the first thing to check. Take the last four reported periods for Salesforce, Inc. and count how often the direction of net revenue retention carried into the following one. A direction that persisted in fewer than three of four is not a trend the plan can lean on. What we would watch next Whether there is a next growth vector being funded at all, which the investment line shows before the revenue line does. The cheapest way to find out Measure, for Salesforce, Inc., whether longer cycles concentrated in the smallest deal band — the one observation on which “pricing friction rather than demand” and “activation, not acquisition” predict different things. Stop rule: stop when one period's data separates the two. If it does not separate them, stop anyway and record that the test lacked the power — do not extend it looking for the answer you expected. The decision this changes One check separates them: is a measurable and growing share of orders originating from AI-agent surfaces rather than human browsing? The recommendation What to do now: One check separates them: is a measurable and growing share of orders originating from AI-agent surfaces rather than human browsing? Why it matters: it is the parameter that decides whether a pricing action is worth making now or worth deferring, and the two answers lead to different plans. Confidence: BOUNDED — supported in direction, not in size. Guardrail: commit no more than can be withdrawn inside one planning cycle until the check below returns. Stopping rule: if the direction is not visible by the next review, the assumption under the decision has failed. How to test it: run the change on one segment or one cohort, hold the rest constant, and read customer count against the unchanged group for one full cycle — that isolates the effect without committing the whole book. How the business actually works Value proposition Sells several distinct products rather than one. What changed, and when Salesforce, Inc. exposes a surface others can build on, so other people's work comes to depend on it, and that dependence is hard to unwind. 2026-08-21 · Complete Salesforce Products & Software Suite | Salesforce EU Salesforce, Inc. publishes named customers rather than logos alone, so those customers agreed to be named, which is a stronger claim than a logo wall. 2026-08-21 · Customer Stories | Salesforce Salesforce, Inc. publishes its prices, so competitors can price against it directly and customers can compare without a conversation. 2026-08-21 · Salesforce Agentforce Pricing | Salesforce What the evidence actually says Company claim Build, customize, test, deploy, and monitor AI-powered agents. Discover pricing information for Salesforce Agentforce. Salesforce Agentforce Pricing | Salesforce Where this sits against the alternatives The part of this most exposed to someone else's move is demand capture at the storefront: if buying is mediated by AI agents, the owned human-facing storefront matters less than the rails an agent calls. cloud computing application service providers: Salesforce, Inc. names this as a category it competes with, in its own words. Automates the task the product exists to support, so the budget moves before the contract lapses. This absorbs the task into something the customer already pays for, without ever entering this market. Response likelihood: not a response — it is a shift in what is being bought. Move up to the decision the task supports, rather than defending the task. The signal that would show it first is usage per seat in the accounts that adopted automation earliest. AI-native companies and emerging startups: Salesforce, Inc. names this as a category it competes with, in its own words. Automates the task the product exists to support, so the budget moves before the contract lapses. This absorbs the task into something the customer already pays for, without ever entering this market. Response likelihood: not a response — it is a shift in what is being bought. Move up to the decision the task supports, rather than defending the task. The signal that would show it first is usage per seat in the accounts that adopted automation earliest. Confidence in the above is bounded: it rests on this company's own account of its market and on how businesses of this kind compete, with no rival's own account to check it against. What would improve it is a competitor's published positioning or pricing on the same buyer — until then, treat a competitor moving first as the risk this evidence cannot price. What the market appears to expect The shares fell 16.5% over the past year, 35.7 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. That bears on one choice: whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. Price reflects expectations and positioning as well as results. It cannot distinguish a re-rating of this company from a re-rating of everything that looks like it. Annualised volatility is about 52%; the shares fell 44% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 23% below the period's highest close. Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. That bears on one choice: whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. This describes the spread of expectations, not the probability of any outcome, and it says nothing about operating performance. The shares fell 16.5% over the past year, 35.7 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The shares fell 16.5% over the past year, 35.7 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). From 2025-08-20 to 2026-08-20, with both series set to 100 at the start: this company ended at 83 and the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund) ended at 120. 57 92 127 2025-08-20 2026-08-20 This company Benchmark The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. Whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Annualised volatility is about 52%; the shares fell 44% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 23% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 52%; the shares fell 44% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 23% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 52%; the shares fell 44% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 23% below the period's highest close. Deepest fall from peak -44% Below the period high -23% Annualised volatility +52% Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. Whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Market data as at 2026-08-20 Macro and industry exposure US Department of Defense outlays (fiscal year to date) is rising: 764.7 $bn (from 718.9, +45.8), compared with the same month of the previous fiscal year, which is the only like-for-like comparison for a year-to-date figure. The company sells into government and defence budgets, so the size of the federal appropriation is the size of the pool its contracts are awarded from. A larger appropriation widens the addressable pool, but public procurement converts slowly and concentrates revenue in a few large awards, so growth arrives late and lumpy rather than smoothly. The choice it bears on: whether to fund specialist public-sector delivery and accreditation capacity ahead of awards that have not yet been announced. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. The choice it bears on: whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. US Department of Defense outlays (fiscal year to date) is rising: 764.7 $bn (from 718.9, +45.8), compared with the same month of the previous fiscal year, which is the only like-for-like comparison for a year-to-date figure. US Department of Defense outlays (fiscal year to date) is rising: 764.7 $bn (from 718.9, +45.8), compared with the same month of the previous fiscal year, which is the only like-for-like comparison for a year-to-date figure. US Department of Defense outlays (fiscal year to date): 764.7 $bn (from 718.9, +45.8), rising. FACTOR US Department of Defense outlays (fiscal year to date): 764.7 $bn (from 718.9, +45.8) REACHES THIS COMPANY BY The company sells into government and defence budgets, so the size of the federal appropriation is the size of the pool its contracts are awarded from. WHICH CHANGES A larger appropriation widens the addressable pool, but public procurement converts slowly and concentrates revenue in a few large awards, so growth arrives late and lumpy rather than smoothly. DECISION Whether to fund specialist public-sector delivery and accreditation capacity ahead of awards that have not yet been announced. The company sells into government and defence budgets, so the size of the federal appropriation is the size of the pool its contracts are awarded from. A larger appropriation widens the addressable pool, but public procurement converts slowly and concentrates revenue in a few large awards, so growth arrives late and lumpy rather than smoothly. Whether to fund specialist public-sector delivery and accreditation capacity ahead of awards that have not yet been announced. US Treasury, Monthly Treasury Statement (MTS Table 5 — Department of Defense, Military Programs) · reading dated 2026-07-31, monthly Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), rising. FACTOR Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2) REACHES THIS COMPANY BY The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. WHICH CHANGES Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. DECISION Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. US Treasury, FiscalData (Average Interest Rates on US Treasury Securities) · reading dated 2026-07-31, monthly Each factor is here because this company's own retrieved evidence establishes the exposure, not because it applies to companies generally. US Treasury, Monthly Treasury Statement (MTS Table 5 — Department of Defense, Military Programs). This establishes that the company operates where this factor applies, and the direction the factor has moved. It does not measure how much of this company's revenue is exposed, and it is not evidence that the factor has already affected results. Where this has played out before When an AI agent performs the task (search, compare, buy), the interface that used to attract humans matters less than the rails the agent transacts through. Value migrates from the human-facing surface to machine-readable endpoints, identity, and checkout the agent can call. Where the comparison stops: Buying remains human-driven on first-party surfaces with no agent endpoints. Check that against the company before relying on the analogy — it is the one condition that would make it the wrong comparison. Seen at: Web search to assistants — answer engines intermediate destination sites; Travel booking to agents/OTAs — aggregators captured demand ahead of supplier sites A second segment brings volume but different procurement, compliance and support expectations. The organisation gradually splits — pricing, roadmap and sales motion pull apart — and the original segment's experience is usually what degrades first. Where the comparison stops: Only one buyer group is ever described, or the second is an aspiration with no evidence. Check that against the company before relying on the analogy — it is the one condition that would make it the wrong comparison. Seen at: Slack SMB to enterprise — self-serve teams alongside enterprise grid deployments; AWS startups to public sector — a separate accredited region and procurement path What this rests on Hold and verify first Agentic-commerce work is R&D optionality, not a near-term distribution change. How this could go If the reading holds If this reading holds, when agents transact, the rails they call matter more than the human-facing storefront. The indicator that this is happening: is a measurable and growing share of orders originating from AI-agent surfaces rather than human browsing? If the plainer account holds If agentic-commerce work is R&D optionality, not a near-term distribution change, nothing has been committed against it. Acting early would then have cost what commit to the reading now commits. If it is settled too late The cost of deciding late is the cost of hold and verify first turning out to be wrong, which the option comparison above states in full. What is still unknown, and why it matters Not established We found signs of this shape for Salesforce, Inc., but did not verify that it holds the authoritative record rather than a copy of it, its products run on one model of the customer's data or customers retire a system they already had. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. It would usually appear in product documentation or a filing describing what the platform holds. Not established We found signs of this shape for Salesforce, Inc., but did not verify that it runs a separate estate for public-sector buyers, it holds accreditations those buyers require, it is bought through public procurement or it has disclosed what those buyers contribute. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. What to monitor, in priority order Segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. Evidence that one named segment contributes negligible revenue. What this has prepared for you Options comparison A one-page side-by-side of Commit to the reading now and hold and verify first, each with its upside, its cost, the assumption it rests on and the sources behind it — for the meeting where this is argued. Decision memo The reading, the choice and the recommended next move, written so the trade-off has to be made explicitly rather than by default. Board discussion questions Is a measurable and growing share of orders originating from AI-agent surfaces rather than human browsing; Segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue.; Evidence that one named segment contributes negligible revenue. Diligence checklist the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working; We found signs of this shape for Salesforce, Inc., but did not verify that it holds the authoritative record rather than a copy of it, its products run on one model of the customer's data or customers retire a system they already had. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. It would usually appear in product documentation or a filing describing what the platform holds. Drafted here and nothing more. Nothing is sent, published, scheduled or shared without your explicit approval. Every source this rests on Regulatory or investor filing Salesforce is a global leader in customer relationship management (“CRM”) technology, helping organizations of any size become agentic enterprises. SEC 10-K (2026-03-02) Company claim Salesforce is the #1 AI CRM, where humans with agents drive customer success together with AI, data, and Customer 360 apps on one unified platform. Complete Salesforce Products & Software Suite | Salesforce EU From Salesforce, Inc.'s own site exposes a surface others can build on 利用阿里云上的 Salesforce，打造面向中国市场的 AI 智能型 Customer 360 | Salesforce CN From Salesforce, Inc.'s own site Create custom AI agents effortlessly with Agentforce's AI Agent Builder. Empower your business with pre set templates or build with no code. AI Agent Builder: Agentforce | Salesforce From Salesforce, Inc.'s own site exposes a surface others can build on Get AI working for your business with Salesforce partners. | Salesforce Company claim Build, customize, test, deploy, and monitor AI-powered agents. Discover pricing information for Salesforce Agentforce. Salesforce Agentforce Pricing | Salesforce Company claim Discover how Salesforce helps 150,000+ companies increase productivity, customer loyalty, and sales revenue — every day. Customer Stories | Salesforce Regulatory or investor filing Salesforce is a global leader in customer relationship management (“CRM”) technology, helping organizations of any size become agentic enterprises. SEC 10-Q (2026-05-28) What this was built from The company's own pages · 6 Executive statements — none Filings and investor material · 2 Customer evidence — none Another registrant's filing — none Independent reporting — none Leadership commentary is a claim about intent, not evidence of result. This is not an absence of publishing: 4 of the company's own addresses refused automated access, so the material may exist and be unreadable to us. Nothing here reports what buying and using this actually costs a customer, so adoption and retention claims cannot be tested. What would settle it: a handful of named customer accounts, reviews or case studies — enough to see whether the value claimed is the value bought. No source of this kind was found to try. No competitor's own account was read, so relative position rests on this company's framing of its market. What would settle it: one rival's annual filing, where a competitor describes the same contest in its own words and is under obligation to be accurate about it. No independent source in this dossier supports the reading. That is a limit of what we retrieved, not evidence that no independent coverage exists. We looked at 23 filing(s) by other registrants and read 12 in full. No outside party has reported on this, so nothing corrects for what the company chooses to emphasise. What would settle it: any source the company does not control that discusses the same decision — trade press, a regulator, or an analyst note. No source of this kind was found to try. ← Back Presentation Step 3 of 6 Introduction Presentation Full analysis The full story History rewind Connect your company Next → The full story the same conclusion as a narrative you can retell Ask the intelligence assistant Your question Ask Suggested, company-specific: What evidence most weakens the positioning for demand mediated by ai agents rather than by people thesis? How is this transition similar to Web search to assistants, and where does the comparison break down? What is likely being debated internally right now? Which recent event makes this timely? What changed in the last six months? Sharing is disabled for demo sessions. Feedback Feedback is switched off here for now — we could not promise to keep what you sent, and asking anyway would be worse than not asking.