Strategic Intelligence — Microsoft Corporation Home · Your analyses · Guest demo session Leave demo .challenge{border:1px solid var(--rule);border-radius:10px;padding:1rem 1.15rem; margin:1.5rem 0;background:var(--surface-2)} .challenge h2{margin:0 0 .35rem;font-size:1.05rem} .challenge .why{color:var(--muted);margin:0 0 .9rem;font-size:.92rem} .challenge dl{margin:0;display:grid;grid-template-columns:minmax(9rem,14rem) 1fr; gap:.55rem 1.1rem} .challenge dt{font-weight:600;color:var(--muted);font-size:.85rem; text-transform:uppercase;letter-spacing:.03em} .challenge dd{margin:0} .challenge .badge{display:inline-block;border:1px solid var(--rule); border-radius:999px;padding:.05rem .5rem;font-size:.75rem;color:var(--muted); margin-left:.4rem;vertical-align:middle} @media (max-width:640px){.challenge dl{grid-template-columns:1fr;gap:.15rem .5rem} .challenge dt{margin-top:.6rem}} Microsoft Corporation Full analysis — the intelligence behind the decision The answer Across the public record for Microsoft Corporation, businesses that subsidise each other are managed together and disclosed apart. The choice: Commit to the reading now versus hold and verify first. What most limits this: the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working. The options, and what each costs Option 1 Commit to the reading now Management plans, resources and prices as though this is already true, without waiting for an outside source to confirm it. Upside If this reading holds, businesses that subsidise each other are managed together and disclosed apart. Cost If instead the segments are genuinely independent and the portfolio framing is investor-relations language rather than operating reality, the commitment is spent against nothing. This assumes That the reading stated above is the correct one. Watch Segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. Option 2 Hold and verify first Plan as though the plainer account is right: the segments are genuinely independent and the portfolio framing is investor-relations language rather than operating reality. Upside If the segments are genuinely independent and the portfolio framing is investor-relations language rather than operating reality, nothing has been committed against it. Cost If this reading holds instead, waiting costs whatever follows from it: businesses that subsidise each other are managed together and disclosed apart. This assumes That the competing account stated above is the correct one. Watch A divestment that leaves the remaining segments unaffected. What to do next One check separates them: segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. Challenging the assumption This is the reading Microsoft Corporation is most likely being run on, and what it would take to show it is wrong. strengthened — it survived a real attempt to break it. The market's current belief That Microsoft Corporation's growth and margin can improve together for another year, because they just did. Inferred Microsoft Corporation's own filed results show growth accelerating and margin widening. This is what a reader of that record carries into next year; nobody published it in these words and it is not a consensus estimate. Why it may be right A holder of this view is reading the record correctly as far as it goes: what it implies is the incremental margin on the next block of revenue, which is what separates operating leverage from a favourable mix, and nothing in what this run retrieved contradicts that. What could break it Revenue growth holds while incremental margin falls — the shape of growth being bought rather than earned. The best competing explanation Growth is being bought. Spend is converting into revenue at a cost that the cohort will not return over its life. The spend has to be earned back before it is repeated. The possibility worth testing What if what actually takes Microsoft Corporation's decisions away is not a competing vendor at all — it is the customer's own engineering? The competitive ladder for Microsoft Corporation reaches the customer's own engineering without needing a vendor to exist, and decides whether the product is priced against a vendor or against a salary. It would show up as closed-lost reasons dominated by no-decision rather than by a named vendor, and it is wrong if customers who built it in-house migrate back, or their build never reaches production. The weakest link in our own argument The direction shown in the record (accelerating) persists into the next period. assumed It is assumed, and 3 step(s) of the argument follow from it — so it is the first thing to check. Take the last four reported periods for Microsoft Corporation and count how often the direction of net revenue retention carried into the following one. A direction that persisted in fewer than three of four is not a trend the plan can lean on. What we would watch next The incremental margin on the next block of revenue, which is what separates operating leverage from a favourable mix. The cheapest way to find out Measure, for Microsoft Corporation, whether peers of the same class showing the same shape in the same quarters — the one observation on which “a cycle is flattering the result” and “growth is being bought” predict different things. Stop rule: stop when one period's data separates the two. If it does not separate them, stop anyway and record that the test lacked the power — do not extend it looking for the answer you expected. The decision this changes One check separates them: segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. The recommendation What to do now: One check separates them: segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. Why it matters: it is the parameter that decides whether a pricing action is worth making now or worth deferring, and the two answers lead to different plans. Confidence: BOUNDED — supported in direction, not in size. Guardrail: commit no more than can be withdrawn inside one planning cycle until the check below returns. Stopping rule: if the direction is not visible by the next review, the assumption under the decision has failed. How to test it: run the change on one segment or one cohort, hold the rest constant, and read customer count against the unchanged group for one full cycle — that isolates the effect without committing the whole book. What changed, and when Microsoft Corporation positions itself as replacing several separate tools, so a customer who leaves later has to rebuild more than one workflow to do it. 2026-08-21 · Microsoft – AI, Cloud, Productivity, Computing, Gaming & Apps Microsoft Corporation publishes named customers rather than logos alone, so those customers agreed to be named, which is a stronger claim than a logo wall. 2026-08-21 · Customer Success Stories | Microsoft Microsoft Corporation sells several distinct products rather than one, so attention and engineering are split across products that compete with each other for both. 2026-08-21 · 10-K What the evidence actually says Company claim Explore Microsoft products and services and support for your home or business. Shop Microsoft 365, Copilot, Teams, Xbox, Windows, Azure, Surface and more. Microsoft – AI, Cloud, Productivity, Computing, Gaming & Apps Company claim Explore the Microsoft Store for apps and games on Windows. Enjoy exclusive deals, new releases, and your favorite content all in one place. Microsoft Store - Download apps, games & more for your Windows PC Where this sits against the alternatives The customer's own engineering: Not a company — the customer building it themselves, read from how this business model works rather than from a retrieved source. Turns the decision into buy-versus-build, where the customer's own engineering time is the competing price and it is not on anyone's budget line. The customer's own engineering gets funded for one quarter, ships something that works, and then meets the maintenance cost nobody budgeted. Response likelihood: not a response — it is a decision made inside the customer, on the customer's calendar. Price against the fully-loaded cost of the build including the second year, and sell to the person who owns that budget. The signal that would show it first is build projects appearing in the accounts with the largest engineering teams first. Renewing nothing and keeping the current process: Not a company — the customer doing nothing, read from how this business model works rather than from a retrieved source. Leaves the customer where they are, which costs them nothing this quarter and is the outcome most evaluations reach. This reasserts itself every time a budget cycle tightens, without anyone choosing it. Response likelihood: no response is possible; this is the default outcome. Make the cost of the status quo visible in the customer's own numbers before the renewal conversation. The signal that would show it first is the share of evaluations reaching a decision at all. Confidence in the above is bounded: it rests on this company's own account of its market and on how businesses of this kind compete, with no rival's own account to check it against. What would improve it is a competitor's published positioning or pricing on the same buyer — until then, treat a competitor moving first as the risk this evidence cannot price. What the market appears to expect The shares fell 5.6% over the past year, 24.8 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. That bears on one choice: whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. Price reflects expectations and positioning as well as results. It cannot distinguish a re-rating of this company from a re-rating of everything that looks like it. Annualised volatility is about 48%; the shares fell 35% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 11% below the period's highest close. Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. That bears on one choice: whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. This describes the spread of expectations, not the probability of any outcome, and it says nothing about operating performance. The shares fell 5.6% over the past year, 24.8 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The shares fell 5.6% over the past year, 24.8 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). From 2025-08-20 to 2026-08-20, with both series set to 100 at the start: this company ended at 95 and the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund) ended at 120. 68 97 126 2025-08-20 2026-08-20 This company Benchmark The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. Whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Annualised volatility is about 48%; the shares fell 35% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 11% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 48%; the shares fell 35% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 11% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 48%; the shares fell 35% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 11% below the period's highest close. Deepest fall from peak -35% Below the period high -11% Annualised volatility +48% Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. Whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Market data as at 2026-08-20 Macro and industry exposure Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. The choice it bears on: whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), rising. FACTOR Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2) REACHES THIS COMPANY BY The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. WHICH CHANGES Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. DECISION Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. US Treasury, FiscalData (Average Interest Rates on US Treasury Securities) · reading dated 2026-07-31, monthly Each factor is here because this company's own retrieved evidence establishes the exposure, not because it applies to companies generally. US Treasury, FiscalData (Average Interest Rates on US Treasury Securities). This establishes that the company operates where this factor applies, and the direction the factor has moved. It does not measure how much of this company's revenue is exposed, and it is not evidence that the factor has already affected results. Where this has played out before Owning both what is sold and the channel it reaches people through lets each business subsidise the other's acquisition cost. The same coupling makes per-business accountability harder to read from outside, and a weak segment can be carried far longer than it would survive alone. Where the comparison stops: Segments are unrelated holdings with no described operational connection. Check that against the company before relying on the analogy — it is the one condition that would make it the wrong comparison. Seen at: Vertically integrated entertainment groups — content and the device it plays on managed together; Platform holders with first-party content — hardware margin funded by content attach What this rests on Hold and verify first The segments are genuinely independent and the portfolio framing is investor-relations language rather than operating reality. How this could go If the reading holds If this reading holds, businesses that subsidise each other are managed together and disclosed apart. The indicator that this is happening: segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. If the plainer account holds If the segments are genuinely independent and the portfolio framing is investor-relations language rather than operating reality, nothing has been committed against it. Acting early would then have cost what commit to the reading now commits. If it is settled too late The cost of deciding late is the cost of hold and verify first turning out to be wrong, which the option comparison above states in full. What is still unknown, and why it matters Not established The public record argues against the reading that it delivers work alongside customers or it sells what those engagements taught it: what was retrieved points the other way. Not established We found signs of this shape for Microsoft Corporation, but did not verify that it holds the authoritative record rather than a copy of it, its products run on one model of the customer's data or customers retire a system they already had. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. It would usually appear in product documentation or a filing describing what the platform holds. What this has prepared for you Options comparison A one-page side-by-side of Commit to the reading now and hold and verify first, each with its upside, its cost, the assumption it rests on and the sources behind it — for the meeting where this is argued. Decision memo The reading, the choice and the recommended next move, written so the trade-off has to be made explicitly rather than by default. Board discussion questions Segment disclosure showing no material inter-segment revenue. Diligence checklist the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working; The public record argues against the reading that it delivers work alongside customers or it sells what those engagements taught it: what was retrieved points the other way. Drafted here and nothing more. Nothing is sent, published, scheduled or shared without your explicit approval. Every source this rests on Company claim Explore Microsoft products and services and support for your home or business. Shop Microsoft 365, Copilot, Teams, Xbox, Windows, Azure, Surface and more. Microsoft – AI, Cloud, Productivity, Computing, Gaming & Apps Regulatory or investor filing Microsoft is a technology company committed to making digital technology and artificial intelligence (“AI”) available broadly and doing so responsibly, with a mission to empower every person and every organization on the… 10-K Company claim Explore the Microsoft Store for apps and games on Windows. Enjoy exclusive deals, new releases, and your favorite content all in one place. Microsoft Store - Download apps, games & more for your Windows PC From Microsoft Corporation's own site Explore customer success stories to learn how businesses are overcoming challenges, driving innovation, and achieving more with Microsoft solutions. Customer Success Stories | Microsoft What this was built from The company's own pages · 3 Executive statements · 1 Filings and investor material · 1 Customer evidence — none Another registrant's filing — none Independent reporting — none Nothing here reports what buying and using this actually costs a customer, so adoption and retention claims cannot be tested. What would settle it: a handful of named customer accounts, reviews or case studies — enough to see whether the value claimed is the value bought. No source of this kind was found to try. No competitor's own account was read, so relative position rests on this company's framing of its market. What would settle it: one rival's annual filing, where a competitor describes the same contest in its own words and is under obligation to be accurate about it. No independent source in this dossier supports the reading. That is a limit of what we retrieved, not evidence that no independent coverage exists. We looked at 27 filing(s) by other registrants and read 12 in full. No outside party has reported on this, so nothing corrects for what the company chooses to emphasise. What would settle it: any source the company does not control that discusses the same decision — trade press, a regulator, or an analyst note. No source of this kind was found to try. ← Back Presentation Step 3 of 6 Introduction Presentation Full analysis The full story History rewind Connect your company Next → The full story the same conclusion as a narrative you can retell Ask the intelligence assistant Your question Ask Suggested, company-specific: What evidence most weakens the running separately-reported businesses as a single portfolio thesis? How is this transition similar to Vertically integrated entertainment groups, and where does the comparison break down? What is likely being debated internally right now? Which recent event makes this timely? What changed in the last six months? Sharing is disabled for demo sessions. Feedback Feedback is switched off here for now — we could not promise to keep what you sent, and asking anyway would be worse than not asking.