Strategic Intelligence — United Parcel Service, Inc. Home · Your analyses · Guest demo session Leave demo .challenge{border:1px solid var(--rule);border-radius:10px;padding:1rem 1.15rem; margin:1.5rem 0;background:var(--surface-2)} .challenge h2{margin:0 0 .35rem;font-size:1.05rem} .challenge .why{color:var(--muted);margin:0 0 .9rem;font-size:.92rem} .challenge dl{margin:0;display:grid;grid-template-columns:minmax(9rem,14rem) 1fr; gap:.55rem 1.1rem} .challenge dt{font-weight:600;color:var(--muted);font-size:.85rem; text-transform:uppercase;letter-spacing:.03em} .challenge dd{margin:0} .challenge .badge{display:inline-block;border:1px solid var(--rule); border-radius:999px;padding:.05rem .5rem;font-size:.75rem;color:var(--muted); margin-left:.4rem;vertical-align:middle} @media (max-width:640px){.challenge dl{grid-template-columns:1fr;gap:.15rem .5rem} .challenge dt{margin-top:.6rem}} United Parcel Service, Inc. Full analysis — the intelligence behind the decision The answer The decision in front of management is what to charge, and for what, without losing more billable headcount or capacity than the price gains? Causal confidence: BOUNDED — supported in direction, not in size. What is known: service delivered by people or over a route network, where sold capacity is the product and unsold capacity expires. What remains unknown: the company&#x27;s filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working. Why that matters: it is the parameter that decides whether a pricing action is worth making now or worth deferring, and the two answers lead to different plans. What management should do now: move on hiring and capacity plan at a size that can be reversed inside one planning cycle, and instrument it so the result is readable before the next commitment. Minimum viable experiment: run the change on one segment or one cohort, hold the rest constant, and read billable headcount or capacity against the unchanged group for one full cycle — that isolates the effect without committing the whole book. Kill switch: if the direction is not visible by the next review, the assumption under the decision has failed. What would change our mind: a disclosure in hiring and headcount actions showing the mechanism moving in the opposite direction would overturn this reading. What this run could not establish on its own: no curated transition pattern matched United Parcel Service, Inc. in this pass, so nothing here rests on one. What most limits this: the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working. Challenging the assumption This is the reading United Parcel Service, Inc. is most likely being run on, and what it would take to show it is wrong. strengthened — it survived a real attempt to break it. The market's current belief That United Parcel Service, Inc.'s current weakness is a cyclical trough rather than a structural reset, and the prior trajectory resumes. Inferred United Parcel Service, Inc.'s own filed results show growth slowing and margin narrowing. This is what a reader of that record carries into next year; nobody published it in these words and it is not a consensus estimate. Why it may be right A holder of this view is reading the record correctly as far as it goes: what it implies is whether the slowdown is arriving through volume or through price, because only one of those recovers with the cycle, and nothing in what this run retrieved contradicts that. What could break it A third consecutive period of the same direction, which is longer than most cycles in this business take to turn. The best competing explanation Activation, not acquisition. Customers are being won and are not reaching the point where the product becomes hard to remove. The investment is in onboarding, which is not where growth budget usually goes. The possibility worth testing What if what actually takes United Parcel Service, Inc.'s decisions away is not a competing vendor at all — it is the customer's own staff doing the work? The competitive ladder for United Parcel Service, Inc. reaches the customer's own staff doing the work without needing a vendor to exist, and decides whether the product is priced against a vendor or against a salary. It would show up as closed-lost reasons dominated by no-decision rather than by a named vendor, and it is wrong if customers who built it in-house migrate back, or their build never reaches production. The weakest link in our own argument The direction shown in the record (slowing) persists into the next period. assumed It is assumed, and 3 step(s) of the argument follow from it — so it is the first thing to check. Take the last four reported periods for United Parcel Service, Inc. and count how often the direction of revenue per person or per route, against wage growth carried into the following one. A direction that persisted in fewer than three of four is not a trend the plan can lean on. What we would watch next Whether the slowdown is arriving through volume or through price, because only one of those recovers with the cycle. The cheapest way to find out Measure, for United Parcel Service, Inc., whether longer cycles concentrated in the smallest deal band — the one observation on which “pricing friction rather than demand” and “activation, not acquisition” predict different things. Stop rule: stop when one period's data separates the two. If it does not separate them, stop anyway and record that the test lacked the power — do not extend it looking for the answer you expected. The decision this changes move on hiring and capacity plan at a size that can be reversed inside one planning cycle, and instrument it so the result is readable before the next commitment. The recommendation What to do now: move on hiring and capacity plan at a size that can be reversed inside one planning cycle, and instrument it so the result is readable before the next commitment. Why it matters: it is the parameter that decides whether a pricing action is worth making now or worth deferring, and the two answers lead to different plans. The mechanism this rests on: service delivered by people or over a route network, where sold capacity is the product and unsold capacity expires. Confidence: BOUNDED — supported in direction, not in size. Guardrail: commit no more than can be withdrawn inside one planning cycle until the check below returns. Stopping rule: if the direction is not visible by the next review, the assumption under the decision has failed. How to test it: run the change on one segment or one cohort, hold the rest constant, and read billable headcount or capacity against the unchanged group for one full cycle — that isolates the effect without committing the whole book. What would change this view: a disclosure in hiring and headcount actions showing the mechanism moving in the opposite direction would overturn this reading. How the business actually works Distribution model Keeps pricing behind a sales conversation. What changed, and when United Parcel Service, Inc. reports as several separate businesses, so the parts can be valued separately, and a weak one has nowhere to hide. 2026-08-21 · SEC 10-Q (2026-08-05) United Parcel Service, Inc. discloses specific risks rather than generic caveats, so these are the exposures management expects to be held to, and each one can be checked against outcomes. 2026-08-21 · SEC DEF 14A (2026-03-19) What the evidence actually says Regulatory or investor filing In 2025, we continued to execute our Customer First, People Led and Innovation Driven strategy, which focuses on growing in the parts of the market that value our end-to-end solutions, including healthcare… SEC 10-K (2026-02-17) Regulatory or investor filing ” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2025, filed with the SEC and being made available with this Proxy Statement, and may also be described… SEC DEF 14A (2026-03-19) Where this sits against the alternatives international postal services: United Parcel Service, Inc. names this as a category it competes with, in its own words. Wins the same evaluation on the same criteria, so the decision is a straight comparison and price is the visible axis. A supplier in this category matches on capability rather than on headline price, because a public price cut is visible to its whole installed base and a feature is not. Response likelihood: likely, and quickly — this is a contested market with an incentive to respond. Hold list price and compete on the part of the job they have to build rather than buy. The signal that would show it first is discounting that appears in their public pricing rather than in individual deals. motor carriers: United Parcel Service, Inc. names this as a category it competes with, in its own words. Wins the same evaluation on the same criteria, so the decision is a straight comparison and price is the visible axis. A supplier in this category matches on capability rather than on headline price, because a public price cut is visible to its whole installed base and a feature is not. Response likelihood: likely, and quickly — this is a contested market with an incentive to respond. Hold list price and compete on the part of the job they have to build rather than buy. The signal that would show it first is discounting that appears in their public pricing rather than in individual deals. Regulation and payer economics: Severance Plan. Named in the filing alongside the competitive discussion and kept out of it — governed by 'Plan': a programme or policy whose terms move this business, not an alternative a customer chooses. Confidence in the above is bounded: it rests on this company's own account of its market and on how businesses of this kind compete, with no rival's own account to check it against. What would improve it is a competitor's published positioning or pricing on the same buyer — until then, treat a competitor moving first as the risk this evidence cannot price. What the market appears to expect The shares rose 17.3% over the past year, 2.7 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. That bears on one choice: whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. Price reflects expectations and positioning as well as results. It cannot distinguish a re-rating of this company from a re-rating of everything that looks like it. Annualised volatility is about 32%; the shares fell 21% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 15% below the period's highest close. Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. That bears on one choice: whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. This describes the spread of expectations, not the probability of any outcome, and it says nothing about operating performance. The shares rose 17.3% over the past year, 2.7 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). The shares rose 17.3% over the past year, 2.7 percentage points behind the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund). From 2025-08-21 to 2026-08-21, with both series set to 100 at the start: this company ended at 118 and the broad US market (S&P 500 tracking fund) ended at 120. 93 116 140 2025-08-21 2026-08-21 This company Benchmark The gap against the benchmark is the part that is about this company rather than about the market everything trades in. A share-price move records what the market expects, not whether the operating strategy is working; it is a reading to explain, not a verdict to accept. Whether the company's own account of its position is one outside investors currently share — and if not, which of the two the plan should be built on. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Annualised volatility is about 32%; the shares fell 21% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 15% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 32%; the shares fell 21% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 15% below the period's highest close. Annualised volatility is about 32%; the shares fell 21% from peak to trough in the last 252 sessions; and they sit 15% below the period's highest close. Deepest fall from peak -21% Below the period high -15% Annualised volatility +32% Volatility is the width of the range outsiders think this business could land in. A wide range raises the cost of raising money against the story and shortens how long investors will wait for it. Whether the plan should be fundable from operating cash rather than from a raise timed to a recovery in the price. public daily closes · as at the most recent completed session Market data as at 2026-08-21 Macro and industry exposure Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. The choice it bears on: whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes is rising: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), compared with the same month a year earlier. Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2), rising. FACTOR Average interest rate on outstanding Treasury notes: 3.3 percent (from 3.1, +0.2) REACHES THIS COMPANY BY The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. WHICH CHANGES Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. DECISION Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. The company's customers or its own balance sheet depend on borrowing, so the cost of credit changes what those customers can afford and what the company can fund. Dearer credit compresses customer budgets and lengthens payback on anything sold as an investment case, which shows up as longer sales cycles before it shows up in revenue. Whether to shift pricing toward smaller committed steps, and whether to fund growth from operating cash rather than debt. US Treasury, FiscalData (Average Interest Rates on US Treasury Securities) · reading dated 2026-07-31, monthly Each factor is here because this company's own retrieved evidence establishes the exposure, not because it applies to companies generally. US Treasury, FiscalData (Average Interest Rates on US Treasury Securities). This establishes that the company operates where this factor applies, and the direction the factor has moved. It does not measure how much of this company's revenue is exposed, and it is not evidence that the factor has already affected results. What is still unknown, and why it matters Not established We found signs of this shape for United Parcel Service, Inc., but did not verify that it names two clearly different buyer groups. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. It would usually appear in a customers page or a segment disclosure. What this has prepared for you Evidence request A numbered request for exactly what is missing: the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working; We found signs of this shape for United Parcel Service, Inc., but did not verify that it names two clearly different buyer groups. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. It would usually appear in a customers page or a segment disclosure. Investigation plan The one bounded check that would settle this, with what each result would favour. Diligence checklist the company's filings carry this, so it is stated under legal obligation rather than in marketing — but no outside account has tested whether it is working; We found signs of this shape for United Parcel Service, Inc., but did not verify that it names two clearly different buyer groups. That distinction matters: this run did not read a source that would show it, which is not the same as finding it untrue. It would usually appear in a customers page or a segment disclosure. Drafted here and nothing more. Nothing is sent, published, scheduled or shared without your explicit approval. Every source this rests on Regulatory or investor filing In 2025, we continued to execute our Customer First, People Led and Innovation Driven strategy, which focuses on growing in the parts of the market that value our end-to-end solutions, including healthcare… SEC 10-K (2026-02-17) Regulatory or investor filing reports as several separate businesses SEC 10-Q (2026-08-05) Regulatory or investor filing ” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2025, filed with the SEC and being made available with this Proxy Statement, and may also be described… SEC DEF 14A (2026-03-19) Regulatory or investor filing The indentures do not limit the aggregate principal amount of debt securities that we may issue and provide that we may issue debt securities from time to time in one or more… SEC 424B5 (2026-08-14) What this was built from The company's own pages — none Executive statements — none Filings and investor material · 4 Customer evidence — none Another registrant's filing — none Independent reporting — none We could not read anything the company publishes about itself, so its own account of its strategy is missing from this reading. No source of this kind was found to try. Leadership commentary is a claim about intent, not evidence of result. No source of this kind was found to try. Nothing here reports what buying and using this actually costs a customer, so adoption and retention claims cannot be tested. What would settle it: a handful of named customer accounts, reviews or case studies — enough to see whether the value claimed is the value bought. No source of this kind was found to try. No competitor's own account was read, so relative position rests on this company's framing of its market. What would settle it: one rival's annual filing, where a competitor describes the same contest in its own words and is under obligation to be accurate about it. No independent source in this dossier supports the reading. That is a limit of what we retrieved, not evidence that no independent coverage exists. We looked at 25 filing(s) by other registrants and read 12 in full. No outside party has reported on this, so nothing corrects for what the company chooses to emphasise. What would settle it: any source the company does not control that discusses the same decision — trade press, a regulator, or an analyst note. No source of this kind was found to try. ← Back Presentation Step 3 of 6 Introduction Presentation Full analysis The full story History rewind Connect your company Next → The full story the same conclusion as a narrative you can retell Ask the intelligence assistant Your question Ask Suggested, company-specific: Which recent event makes this timely? What changed in the last six months? Sharing is disabled for demo sessions. Feedback Feedback is switched off here for now — we could not promise to keep what you sent, and asking anyway would be worse than not asking.